README.md, before:

# LokiMock

This want to be a simple tool to simplify manual quality assurance of rest services/API.   

## Reasoning

This tool want to fill a gap in software testing. While it's relatively easy to build automatic tests from an 
engineering point of view it's very difficult to simulate all the possibles scenarios and spot edge cases when the 
service under test is part of a complex constellation.

```mermaid
---
title: sample scenario
---
sequenceDiagram
    upstream_service->>service_under_test: request 
    activate service_under_test
    
    service_under_test-->>dependency_1: first downstream request
    activate dependency_1
    dependency_1->>service_under_test: first response
    deactivate dependency_1
    
    service_under_test-->>dependency_2: second downstream request
    activate dependency_2
    dependency_2->>service_under_test: second response
    deactivate dependency_2
    
    service_under_test-->>dependency_3: third downstream request
    activate dependency_3
    dependency_3->>service_under_test: third response
    deactivate dependency_3
    
    service_under_test->>upstream_service: response
    deactivate service_under_test
```

This tool aim to offer an easy simple web interface to simulate a service call offering a configurable single use mock 
for dependencies of the service under test.


```mermaid
---
title: LokiMock interaction schema
---
flowchart LR
  loki_GUI --setup mocks --> loki_server
  loki_GUI --make a request --> service_under_test
  service_under_test <--mock interaction--> loki_server
```

```mermaid
---
title: LokiMock sequence interaction
---
sequenceDiagram 
  loki_GUI ->> loki_server: setup mocks
  activate loki_server


  loki_GUI ->> service_under_test: make a request

  service_under_test ->> loki_server: mock interaction 1
  activate loki_server
  loki_server->>service_under_test: first mocked response
  deactivate loki_server
  deactivate loki_server
  
  service_under_test ->> loki_GUI: send response
```

## Tech stack

The system is a full-stack web applications build with [Kotlin multiplatfor](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform.html#full-stack-web-applications).
The backend is in native kotlin with Ktor server as base. 
The frontend is in react but built using Kotlin wrapper.

## Planned features 

- [x] Visualize json correctly formatted (Json editor library JS)
- [ ] Show endpoint response
- [ ] Add support for request matchers
- [ ] GUI should be statically configured from a JSON file

  The final setup should be similar to this [one](./documentation/sampleConfiguration.json)
  ([json schema definition](./documentation/configurationSchema.json))
- [ ] Receive graphical feedback of the called mocked endpoints

  The idea is to color code the mocks in the gui
    - Red -> endpoint not called
    - Yellow -> endpoint called but request didn't match the expectation
    - Green -> endpoint called with the expected request

  Possible implementations are with **SSE** or **Web Sockets**
- [ ] Add Docker deploy
- [ ] Add support for graphQL dependencies.
  - GraphQL's responses are already in Json thus the issue is more on the request matcher.

Commit message:

+ Improved logging + Allow any host

README.md, after:

# LokiMock

This want to be a simple tool to simplify manual quality assurance of rest services/API.   

## Reasoning

This tool want to fill a gap in software testing. While it's relatively easy to build automatic tests from an 
engineering point of view it's very difficult to simulate all the possibles scenarios and spot edge cases when the 
service under test is part of a complex constellation.

```mermaid
---
title: sample scenario
---
sequenceDiagram
    upstream_service->>service_under_test: request 
    activate service_under_test
    
    service_under_test-->>dependency_1: first downstream request
    activate dependency_1
    dependency_1->>service_under_test: first response
    deactivate dependency_1
    
    service_under_test-->>dependency_2: second downstream request
    activate dependency_2
    dependency_2->>service_under_test: second response
    deactivate dependency_2
    
    service_under_test-->>dependency_3: third downstream request
    activate dependency_3
    dependency_3->>service_under_test: third response
    deactivate dependency_3
    
    service_under_test->>upstream_service: response
    deactivate service_under_test
```

This tool aim to offer an easy simple web interface to simulate a service call offering a configurable single use mock 
for dependencies of the service under test.


```mermaid
---
title: LokiMock interaction schema
---
flowchart LR
  loki_GUI --setup mocks --> loki_server
  loki_GUI --make a request --> service_under_test
  service_under_test <--mock interaction--> loki_server
```

```mermaid
---
title: LokiMock sequence interaction
---
sequenceDiagram 
  loki_GUI ->> loki_server: setup mocks
  activate loki_server


  loki_GUI ->> service_under_test: make a request

  service_under_test ->> loki_server: mock interaction 1
  activate loki_server
  loki_server->>service_under_test: first mocked response
  deactivate loki_server
  deactivate loki_server
  
  service_under_test ->> loki_GUI: send response
```

## Tech stack

The frontend is in pure [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/).
The backend is in native kotlin with [Ktor server](https://ktor.io/) and the mocks are implemented in [Javalin](https://javalin.io/). 

## Planned features 

- [x] Visualize json correctly formatted (Json editor library JS)
- [ ] Show endpoint response
- [ ] Add logging
- [ ] Add support for request matchers
- [ ] GUI should be statically configured from a JSON file

  The final setup should be similar to this [one](./documentation/sampleConfiguration.json)
  ([json schema definition](./documentation/configurationSchema.json))
- [ ] Receive graphical feedback of the called mocked endpoints

  The idea is to color code the mocks in the gui
    - Red -> endpoint not called
    - Yellow -> endpoint called but request didn't match the expectation
    - Green -> endpoint called with the expected request

  Possible implementations are with **SSE** or **Web Sockets**
- [ ] Add Docker deploy
- [ ] Add support for graphQL dependencies.
  - GraphQL's responses are already in Json thus the issue is more on the request matcher.
